When the apostle Paul wrote
to Christians in Ephesus
about unity in the congregation,
he compared the Mosaic Law
to a wall that divided Jews and Gentiles.
Paul may have been alluding to the wall
that surrounded the inner courtyards
of the first-century temple in Jerusalem.
This low wall, called the Soreg,
marked the boundary
that Gentiles could not cross.
Only Jews were permitted
to enter further into the temple area.
According to first-century Jewish historian Josephus,
the Soreg had signs in Greek and Latin
warning non-Jews not to go beyond it.
Apparently, those who did
could face the death penalty.
Two such signs have been found
—one in 1871
and another in 1935.
They both bear inscriptions
warning foreigners not to enter.
On one occasion,
Paul was mobbed in the temple
because the Jews wrongly accused him
of bringing Gentiles
into the area fenced off by the Soreg.
The symbolic wall of the Mosaic Law
that divided Jews and Gentiles
was abolished on the basis of Christ’s death.